#!/usr/local/plan9/bin/rc
# display a welcome message that contains the wmii tutorial

xmessage -file - <<END
Welcome to wmii, the non-wimp environment of the WMI Project.

This is a small step by step tutorial, intended to make you a little bit
familiar with wmii.

NOTE: Some characters in shortcuts have a special meaning.  S is the Shift
key, C is the Ctrl key, M is the Meta key (usually Alt), and the hyphen means
that you have to press the surrounding keys at the same time.

Let's go!

- Start two xterms by pressing M-t twice.
- Switch between the three windows: M-j, M-k
  You can also use M-Tab instead of M-j.  If you prefer the mouse, then
  just click the desired window.
- Create a new page: M-C-y
  IMPORTANT: this text will then no longer be visible.  In order to continue
  reading you'll now often have to go back to the first page.  Use M-h
  or M-l for cycling through the existing pages.  The digit in the left
  corner at the bottom indicates which page you're on.  You can directly
  select a specific page as well: M-S-1, etc.  Make sure that you are on the
  second page before performing the next steps.
- Apply the float layout to the current page: M-S-f
  Watch the leftmost bar label: the 't', which stood for 'tiled', has now
  turned into an 'f', for 'float'.
- Open the programs menu: M-C-p
  Type 'xclock' and press Enter.
- Resize the xclock window: left-click on the border and, while holding the
  button down, move the cursor around.
- Move the xclock window: left-click on the title bar and, while holding
  the button down, move the cursor around.
- Open the actions menu: M-C-a
  Remove the current page by selecting the rmpage action.  The xclock window
  will be automatically detached and we'll land on the first page.
- Attach the xclock window again: M-a
- Select one of the terminals and close it: M-C-c
  Close xclock as well.
- Swap the remaining terminal with the left master tile by moving the terminal
  window somewhere to the left.  Afterwards, swap them once again, but this
  time by pressing M-Enter.
- Working with mouse efficiently:
  selecting a window: just click the desired window
  move a window : press M+Button1Press and move the window
  resize a window (only with non managed): press M+Button3Press and resize it
  (this can also be done by clicking the titlebar of the window/borders respectively)
- We'll now have a look at the internal filesystem used by wmii.  Executing
  	wmiir read /
  in the shell of the terminal will list all the files in the root directory.
  Files ending with a slash are directories.  As you can see, / contains a
  "normal" file and four directories.  These directories correspond to the
  four main components of wmii: wmiiwm, wmiibar, wmiikeys, and wmiimenu.  If you
  are curious, you can now dig deeper into the directory trees.  For instance,
  	wmiir read /bar/1/b1press
  will show you which command gets executed when you left-click on the page
  label in the bar.

We hope that these steps gave you an idea of how wmii works.  You can reread
them at any time by pressing M-C-a and selecting 'welcome'.

You should now take a look at the wmii(1) man page.  An FAQ is available on
<http://wmii.de>.
END
