#!9PREFIX/bin/rc
# display a welcome message that contains the wmii tutorial

xmessage -file - <<END
Welcome to wmii, the non-wimp environment of the WMI Project.

This is a small step by step tutorial, intended to make you a little bit
familiar with the wmii window manager.

NOTE: Some characters in the shortcuts that are mentioned in the following
text have a special meaning.  S is the Shift key, C is the Ctrl key, M is
the Meta key (usually Alt), and the hyphen means that you have to press the
surrounding keys at the same time.

Let's go!

- Start a terminal by pressing M-t.  This assumes that you have xterm(1)
  installed.
- Open the actions menu: C-M-a
  Type 'term' and press Enter.  You've now used wmimenu(1) to accomplish what
  wmikeys(1) did before when you pressed M-t: executing the term action.
  Notice how the tiled layout arranges the windows.  
- Switch between the three windows: M-j, M-k
  You can also use M-Tab instead of M-j.  If you prefer the mouse, then
  just move the pointer above the desired window; no click is required.
- Create a new page: C-M-y
  IMPORTANT: this text will then no longer be visible.  In order to continue
  reading you'll now often have to go back to the first page.  Use M-h
  or M-l for cycling through the existing pages.  The digit in the left
  corner at the bottom indicates which page you're on.  You can directly
  select a specific page as well: M-1, etc.  Make sure that you are on the
  second page before performing the next steps.
- Apply the float layout to the current page: S-M-f
  Watch the leftmost bar label: the 't', which stood for 'tiled', has now
  turned into an 'f', for 'float'.
- Open the programs menu: C-M-p
  Type 'xclock' and press Enter.
- Resize the xclock window: left-click on the border and, while holding the
  button down, move the cursor around.
- Move the xclock window: left-click on the title bar and, while holding
  the button down, move the cursor around.
- Remove the current page by opening the actions menu and selecting the premove
  action.  The xclock window will be automatically detached and we'll land on
  the first page.
- Attach the xclock window again: M-a
- Select one of the terminals and close it: C-M-c
  Close xclock as well.
- Swap the remaining terminal with the left master tile by moving the terminal
  window somewhere to the left.  Afterwards, swap them once again, but this
  time by pressing M-return.
- We'll now have a look at the internal filesystem used by wmii.  Executing
  	wmiir read /
  in the shell of the terminal will list all the files in the root directory.
  Files ending with a slash are directories.  As you can see, / contains a
  "normal" file and four directories.  These directories correspond to the
  four main components of wmii: wmiiwm, wmibar, wmikeys, and wmimenu.  If you
  are curious, you can now dig deeper into the directory trees.  For instance,
  	wmiir read /bar/1/b1press
  will show you which command gets executed when you left-click on the page
  label in the bar.

We hope that these steps gave you an idea of how wmii works.  Of course, there
is much more to say.  You should now read the wmii(1) man page and the FAQ at
<http://wmii.de>.
END
